---
layout: post
title:  "Focus is an issue"
date:   2021-10-06 10:42:08 +1000
categories: blog initiate
---

<h1>The high value skill</h1>
 
Something fundamental to learning. Not just learning complex things, but absolutely anything.
When you are a child, your focus on any one thing provides the opportunity to take in information. 
Focussing on your mother's mouth move when you are just born, how it moves to produce the sounds you hear.
Focussing on the balance required to stay upright when you are learning to walk and contract those little muscles in sync to propel yourself forward. 

Absolutely fundamental to human development is the ability to focus on something.

Sure, I can focus...enough to function as an adult. 
Pay attention to where I am driving so I can find my way home. 
Pay attention to the youtube video that I aligns with an interest of mine. 

But beyond that, I feel that my ability to focus has completely left me. Particularly for things that I am not keenly amused by. 
It is a minute my minute war with myself to hold attention, and my mind fights me with everything to pull me towards ANY other that might grab my attention. 

Forget working in an environment with any amount of irregular noise or other people talking. I may as well be inside a drum.
So what am I trying to achieve with all this whinging... to direct the frustration into focus.

Im well and truly over the days where I get to the end and think, what the hell have I done today. 
I will employ some strategies to attempt to regain my focus - taking a couple concepts found in 'Deep Work' and other sources. 

1. Phone is out of the room - Other side of the house, where I have enough time to get cranky at myself for numbly getting up and walking towards it.
2. Twitter Must Go - I've already deleted facebook and instagram. This toxic time trap has to go to. There. Done. Gone. 
3. Big Blocks of Focus Time - 2 hours each and you don't leave your desk in that time. It's ok if your mind wanders, just notice it and pull it back to the task
4. Gym in the morning - Workout hard and get your first major achievement done for the day. It will motivate to stay the path.

That's enough thinking about it though. 
Oh, I hear that Atomic Habits book has some good tips also.
